Before we can start using PowerShell to document anything in the XenApp 5 farm, let us ensure we have the necessary requirements.
1. Install the XenApp Commands Technology Preview (v3).  
a. From your XenApp 5 server, go to http://tinyurl.com/XA5CTPv3. 
i. Note: A MyCitrix.com login is required.
b. Scroll down and click on Download.
c. Save the file as Citrix.XenApp.Commands2.zip to your default download folder.
d. Extract the file to C:\XA5CTP. 
e. Close your Internet browser.
f. For a 32-bit server, click Start, Run, type in C:\XA5CTP\Citrix.XenApp.Commands\Citrix.XenApp.Commands.Install_x86.msi and press Enter.
g.  For a 64-bit server, click Start, Run, type in C:\XA5CTP\Citrix.XenApp.Commands\Citrix.XenApp.Commands.Install_x64.msi and press Enter.
h. Click Run. 
i. Select I accept the terms of this license agreement and click Install. 
j. After a few seconds, the installation completes.
k. Click Finish. 
l. Click Start, All Programs, Citrix, XenApp Commands, Windows PowerShell with XenApp Commands (CTP3). A PowerShell session starts with the Citrix PowerShell modules already loaded.
2. If you use Configuration Logging, you will need to use a UDL file in order for the History section of the script to work.  
a. For an explanation, see http://tinyurl.com/CreateUDLFile.
b. The UDL file will need to be placed in the same folder as the XenApp 5 Inventory script.  The UDL file will need to be named XA5ConfigLog.udl.  
c. You will need to edit the UDL file and add  ;Password=ConfigLogDatabasePassword to the end of the last line in the file.  For example, here is mine (line is one line):
i. Provider=SQLOLEDB.1;Integrated Security=SSPI;Persist Security Info=False;User ID=administrator;Initial Catalog=XA5ConfigLog;Data Source=SQL;Password=abcd1234
How to use this script?
There are now two versions of the XenApp 5 script.
1. Version 1
a. Save the script as XA5_Inventory.ps1 in your PowerShell scripts folder. 
b. From the PowerShell prompt, change to your PowerShell scripts. 
c. From the PowerShell prompt, type in:
i. .\XA5_Inventory.ps1 | out-file .\XA5Farm.doc and press Enter.  
d. Open XA5Farm.doc in either WordPad or Microsoft Word.  
2. Version 2
a. Save the script as XA5_Inventory_V2.ps1 in your PowerShell scripts folder. 
b. From the PowerShell prompt, change to your PowerShell scripts. 
c. From the PowerShell prompt, type in:
i. .\XA5_Inventory_V2.ps1
d. A Microsoft Word document is created named after the XenApp 5 Farm.
Version 2 of the script has full help text available.
Get-Help .\XA5_Inventory_V2.ps1 –full
The help text explains the three parameters the Version 2 script accepts.

